## Overview

I really need to simplify my network and its ability to connect to various networks. I am currently using several pieces of hardware to do this and have expected more of the various Mikrotik hardware I've purchased. 

I generally find myself having poor connection when I also have access to someone's residential service (which is also not great). Most recently I am on a property with its own backup internet connection and I have found myself "round robining" my connection between the two and my LTE. 

It's possible that a Gl.iNet style travel router could accomplish failing over, but using a Pi, I could run Speedify's bonding VPN service to not just provide failover, but actual channel bonding to increase my speeds when I am in these situations.

The Pi would also allow me to run basic services in Linux or Docker that would be nice to have as a backup if the rest of the sytem went down, allowing the Pi to potentially be a backup hotspot AND stripped down home server.

In setting this up, I feel it might be best to revert to using a Unifi Gateway for DCHP/Router tasks considering my existing use of a Unifi switch and access point.


## Things I need to figure out

Since I'll likely be running a vanilla Rasbian install, and not a browser accessible router software, there are a few things I need to consider before setting this up. 


- SMS via LTE modem?
  - other ways to connect if extended network is down
  - ZeroTier/Tailscale
- GPS Data
  - Traccar
  - RTC & NTP server
- UPS backup
  - let OS know when on backup vs PoE
- Backup AP when ethernet share disconnect
- Data to MQTT/Home Assistant
  - Prometheus?
  - Want/Need Cell Signal Data
  - Bandwidth per connection
  - GPS/NTP
- 


Remote Access possible?
https://sagar.se/blog/speedify/


## PoE
`UNTESTED`
The Unifi Security Gateway (and other USG integrated products) don't have PoE on their WAN port. A PoE injector is an option, but I also like the idea of looping it through the switch on a pair of untagged ports as shown off in this Crosstalk Solutions video: https://youtu.be/P-bDxMgvG1I?t=1493

In Unifi Network:
VLAN Only network - "WAN Connect"
Switch Settings > Port Profile "WAN Connect"
